THOUGHTS / FEELINGS ABOUT THE CRIT
I’d like to preface the reflection with a thought I had about the question I posed: that 
the quality of responses is only as great as the quality of the questions. After our discussion 
I realised the question to ask was not in regards to whether they are a part of the same ecology 
- a Punk Ecology - but how. Overall the responses did confirm my belief that rave / poetry / 
cowgirlisms are akin to each other - but really I already knew this (a prophecy from the oracle
of Delphi herself perhaps)… after the conversation I feel excited to explore their relationship 
further, and I coul dfeel there was a certain energy being tapped into thru the performance that
resonated with the group. 
Nancy noted that perhaps the framework for research was in fact Ecologies of Punk. This line from
 our IRC chat: “about female empowerment  and taking back the stage be in music in folkore or on 
 the 
internet… Punk is the decomposition in which we can find the only truth of life.”Is what really 
prompted the shift toward the lens of punk ecologies. Along with Mackenzie Wark’s Capital is Dead,
 where Wark begins the book with: “Which punk goddess are you?” And then proceeds to conversations
about capitalism as it was, and capitalism as it can be viewed now.
The response from the group about what I had perceived as disorganised and pretty frantic chaos of
 the performance was also received with excitement, kind of to my surprise. After Megan pointed out 
 the likeness to a heist or siege scene from a movie, I’m reminded to lean in to what I felt as chaos, 
 as it’s mostly borne out of the self-concern and fear of stepping out of line that we are pushed 
 toward by the “status quo”.
It was great to talk about the sound aspect as I had unconsciously chosen to use YouTube clips without 
acknowledging that the reasoning behind that was largely driven by not wanting to contribute any 
more data mass. 
I’d also like to mention that I’ve begun talk with a friend to take the Cowgirl Manifesto in its 
techno track form further through a remix “tree”, which will transfer ownership of stems thru a 
chain of remixes - creating digital branches. I have been thinking a lot about how to transfer the stems
(open source, p2p, some sort of blockchain emulation - it’s almost like the cowgirl manifesto remix 
project could become it’s own form of blockchain (not sure if that’s a stretch but it’s a compelling 
idea)). More immediately, and before Wednesday’s presentation I’m going to continue exploring the chaos 
that can be created through this form of live coding performance.
The further I dive into this project I realise more and more that I might be opening an infinite can of 
worms. Though with all the connections between mythology, punk and ecologies I’m also reminded that what 
I am exploring is infinite and transcends my tiny blip of a life - and thru that I genuinely feel more 
connected to the physical and digital realms.





(PRESENTATION NOTES IN CASE U WANT TO SKIM, THERE IS MORE ELABORATION ON SOME OF THE TALKING 
POINTS AND PROCESS BEHIND THE PERFORMANCE)

Talk about it? Or just read the poem as you go. I want to hacve practiced so much by the time I perform 
it that it is ritualistic and akin to a mantra which I can repeat to myself. I already do this. Sometimes
 I catch myself reciting it in my head. 

What I’m going to talk about in this presentation is the process so far, as well as some of the broader 
influences and concepts I’ve been thinking about concurrently with the Cowgirl Manifesto. It’s a mix of 
poetry, ecology, rave culture and real-life Cowgirlisms. I’m gonna show you the influences and then we 
can talk about them.
PROCESS
Began as a written poem, developed into a simple webpage, now it has become a live performance incorporating 
choreography and sound.
Upon prompting from class discussion and one-on-ones I was driven to explore the Cowgirl metaphor further. 
This idea of the world wide web as the wild wild west struck a chord. This idea paired with watching Joana 
Chicau sort of opened my mind to the potential to drove / shepherd / corral the internet into something less 
predictable, steering toward something expansive like the outback or the wild west.
The process of working out the choreography really came thru experimenting. What would happen when I deleted 
certain sections, how much could I manipulate the existing code with javascript functions and styles? How 
easy is it to INSERT new imagery, literally transforming the meaning and purpose of the page. This all felt 
like a Cowgirl act.

Talk about youth of cattle droving? Maybe?
I was transported back to a time in my teen hood where I drove cattle and went to team penning events. The 
fearlessness of riding a horse – something that is special about riding horses is that they have the awareness 
and ability to not only look out for themselves, but also for their rider (provided you have developed 
rapport). I’m really outing myself as a horse girl now… but that’s the nature of horse riding. Especially 
in disciplines such as natural horsemanship where horse and rider are encouraged to literally become 
“one” in join-up follow-up.
Part of this connection to the world around us is also developed thru shamanic practice and ritualistic 
dance.
Play video for 2 mins

POETRY / RAVE / COWGIRLS = EXISTING IN THE SAME ECOLOGY? It’s all punk.

“POETRY IS THE FINAL FRONTIER” quote from Nancy
- poetry can be a lot of things

Patti Smith reading
Similar to this video of Patti Smith improvising a poem, I’m trying to create an environment for 
improvisation within the manifesto. While I have a rough choreography laid out, I’ve also got a list 
of different manipulations in my toolbox, along with styling and notes on how they resulted. The process 
of keeping notes during practice has bene important, as it not only helps to commit to memory the map of 
the code, but also helps to learn about how the code interacts. For example, the reordering of the 
textDestination DIVs and pasting the tBT in them both to create a glitch effect was an accident, which 
I recorded and then implemented intentionally.

Mackenzie Wark Capital Is Dead, reference to punk in the first line: Which punk goddess are you?
Consoles us in Capital is not eternal. 
I have referenced Patti: She is benediction / she is the root connection / she is connecting with me
Eris Drew’s Motherbeat - she identifies music that contains “motherbeats”, or beats that all other music 
is derived from and which has the power to enchant listeners. Feeds into the concept of ecstatic healing.
I didn’t even realise the similarities between the Motherbeat and the Cowgirl Manifesto. But I love it.
Opened my eyes to the ritualistic, transcendental nature of dance music. Capital has turned the bulk of 
music into something unrecognisable from its true form. 
This is the purpose of the lines: 
Without wind or the rain … what is really left?? / the night / where the magic happens / people become 
shadows …. liberated
Eris Drew:  we find it easier to let go in darkness. Easier to dissolve.
Lyra and Eris collaborate on 
https://www.glamcult.com/uncategorized/rave-revolution-eris-drew-shares-the-motherbeat/

COWGIRLS
Punk people, the antidote to Big Daddy Data Wranglers
It is a radical act of slow computing to use devices and interfaces in a way that is different to their 
prescribed functionality.
To use metaphor to critically engage with the digital makes space for poetry to enter into the conversation.

I have given you a glimpse of what it is to be a Cowgirl in the digital age thru the demonstration.
Corraling information, disorganising media, roaming the Wild Wild West with nothing but the contents of 
your swag.
Here’s what’s in my swag: SHOW VS CODE

PUNK ECOLOGIES?
PUNK: rejects the Main Stream
ECOLOGY:  relations of organisms to one another

When we are encouraged to detach from ourselves and the world around us, it feels punk to resist that in 
favour of something else, something intertwined with the flow of the river, the mourning of trees, and 
spiritual connection with other beings.
